---
layout: post
title: "Capstone: Covering"
author: "Berwin Gan "
categories: research
tags: [research]
image: ../capstone_photos/first.png
---

I am glad to announce the submission of my capstone in computational geometry with Professor Saurabh Ray titled "Approximations for Covering in a Streaming Setting, Covering with Orthants"

We looked primarily at two different but related problems. The first was the question of finding the minimum number of unit discs to cover points in a streaming setting, that is, given a bunch of streaming points onto a plane, how can we create an algorithm that will cover all points with unit discs without storing every point. We then investigated covering with orthants. The enviroment was that there are points on a plane with priorities and everytime we add a new orthant, the two points with the two highest priorities covered by the orthant will form a connection. The big question was wether or not we could use these orthants to form cliques of arbitrarily large size.

Abstract: We present approximations schemes for local variations on the unit disc covering problem in a streaming setting. We give a 2-approximation algorithm to find a hitting set of size 2 when there exists a hitting set of size 1 for the half-space variation. After that, we give a 1.5-approximation algorithm for the dual problem of the interval covering problem when the solutions size is 2. For the lower bound, we show a 1.5 lower bound for the square variation and a 2 lower bound for the half-space variation. For covering with orthants, we first give a construction method to solve the uniform single connection with one type of orthant problem. We then show that using only one type of orthant is equivalent to the planar graph. Furthermore, we worked towards showing arbitrarily large size cliques cannot be made using exactly zero and one intermediary points. 

If you are interested, please read it [here](/assets/pdf/capstone.pdf)

Some of the drawings made: 