---
layout: post
title: "Fixing Anchor Incentives"
author: "Berwin Gan "
categories: extra
tags: [Defi]
image: ../assets/img/anchor.png
---

With the recent introduction of the UST Degenbox strategy by abracadadra.money, the 20% anchor rate paid out to depositors of UST into the protocol is becoming more and more unsustainable. As of writing, the anchor protocol is losing 600k from the yield reserve daily and the loss seems to be accelerating from the looping by abracadabra and wonderland. Given the 67 million current yield reserve and the accelerating loss, the protocol is estimated to have a 60 day runway with its current parameters.
It is no secret that the 20% apy was never meant to be sustainable but rather a marketing tool to get traffic through the door. The main game plan of Anchor was always to capture a high market share of yield generating staked tokens from established protocols and L1 layers and to push the adoption of UST and other Terra stablecoins through its savings incentives. As such, a few changes must be made before the runway is up and the lending apy jumps off a freefall and here are my thoughts.
The first and most obvious solution would be to make the lending rate dynamic. Much more than it currently is. According to the docs, the real yield which is made up of the borrowing interest and staking rewards from the bonded assets are stabilize around the anchor rate using yield reserves and ANC incentives. When the protocol is profitable and the real yield > anchor rate, the excess is deposited in the yield reserves and ANC incentives to borrowers drop by 15% per week. On the other hand, when real yield < anchor rate, the yield reserves are used to subsidy the lending interest while ANC incentives increases 50% each week until real yields converges to the anchor rate. Last but not least, a governance proposal could also be approved to change the anchor rate. The first two type of incentives to respond to a difference in real yield and anchor rate depends heavily on the value of the ANC token. If the ANC token holds no tangible value or is falling in value as seen in March 2021, increasing or decreasing the subsidy rate would not make a dent in the borrowing habits on the protocol. This leaves us with the lengthy process of a governance proposal which would tediously and manually change the anchor rate when the anchor rate are unsustainable. My proposal would be to automate the anchor rate to be a dynamically set rate based on the borrow and lend supply for the day, changing daily or even hourly. This for obvious reasons would and should be the last alternative the TFL team would take as the 20% lending apy is the whole point to the marketing of the Terra ecosystem and Anchor Protocol.
The second step would be to restructure the use case of ANC tokens. ANC in its current form have three purpose, the first is governance for which ANC tokens are used to create and vote on proposals, the second is to capture a portion of Anchor’s yield and thirdly to bootstrap borrow demand. The problem starts at the third purpose. ANC in its current form is mainly used as a subsidy to encourage borrowing from the protocol, essentially paying borrowers after the borrowing apy is taken into account against the distribution apy which is the amount of ANC given to borrowers. This inherently makes the protocol unsustainable as the borrowing interest is simply paid off by the ANC distributed to the borrowers. Furthermore, in term of incentives, it makes no sense to hand the reins of the protocol to borrowers and not give any control to depositors. Although unlikely, this would allow borrowers to propose and vote on proposals that heavily favour borrowers while not taking into account the depositors. ANC token should not be used to bootstrap the borrowing liquidity but rather as purely a governance token. Instead of handing out ANC as subsidies, ANC tokens should be handed out to both borrowers and depositors for the time they placed their asset in the protocol, eventually petering out as the supply limit is reached.
Alongside this drop in subsidy should come a change of branding. For too long Anchor have focused on its lending apy of 20% which far outstrips traditional banking. I believe that this must change to focus on the borrowers. Instead of charging a high borrowing apy of 10-12% (which is subsidies by ANC distributions) of which the remaining percentage of the anchor rate is taken from the staking yield, Anchor should instead rebrand to become the place to park one’s assets for nearly free. This could be as drastic as charging a flat 1% for borrowing or even 0%. Number one, this takes the pressure off using ANC as a subsidy for borrowing and would place the yield focus back into staking yield of staked tokens such as bEth and bLuna. Number two, this would encourage tokens from all ecosystem to migrate to Anchor given its cheap rates. Even though borrowing is overcollateralize at 200%, at the current staking rewards for Luna of just under 8%, this would mean that the real yield would fall from 20% to a much more realistic 16% + the 1% earn from actually borrowing. Of course, this can eventually be manually pushed up to a respectable 5% when the crisis of loops are over or when the protocol have stabilize more. That said, this publicity would solve the more pressing issue of underutilization which currently sits are just over 60%.
With the massive amount of looping, a lot of UST are being pumped into the Anchor protocol but are not being loaned out. The premise of yields from staked tokens of borrowers making up the main part of the yield and topped off by borrowing interests is simply unsustainable when not enough people borrow. There have been proposals to utilize portions of the Anchor protocol to farm delta neutral on Mirror but in my opinion, it is like taking money from one side of the pocket and placing it in another. Anchor’s problem must be solved within the constraints of Anchor and not carried over the various protocols devised by TFL. As such, making borrowing attractive alongside diversifying the possible tokens to borrow against such as bSol and bAtom would provide inflow of borrowing as well as stability.
With the implementation of the suggestions quickly, Anchor could survive the next winter. That said, the Terra ecosystem cannot just rely on the Anchor protocol and its lucrative savings apy to be the sole driver of UST adoption. In a recent post on the governance forums, it is calculated that 85% of all circulating UST is located in the Anchor protocol which begs the question, “What is the purpose of the Terra ecosystem and the Terra stablecoins besides the use as a savings account?”. Anchor protocol have taken up too much resources of the TerraForm Labs and have evolved into a monster that they can’t ignore.
This brings me to my last point, the adoption of UST and KRT and other stablecoins in the real world by applications such as Chai and Alice must be at the forefront of TFL efforts. If the Anchor protocol is truly to be the cornerstone of the entire Terra ecosystem, its ability to return yield must be tied to the use of UST. The more UST used in everyday transactions, the better the Anchor Protocol becomes. Why. Why would token holders from all around bother to bridge and borrow against their token if UST is as useful as Tether. The Terra ecosystem must make its stablecoins adoption the priority in order for its Anchor protocol to survive long term, in order for Anchor to be the safe parking space for token holders and stablecoins holders. This includes for funding and prioritizing fiat ramps and collaborations with store chains to accept and use stablecoins are fiat replacement.
